adding simulate_index_template api docs (#9587)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/simulate-index-template.md

---
layout: default
title: Simulate index templates
parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 29
---

# Simulate index templates

> The Simulate Index Template API helps you preview how index templates will be applied to an index or simulate an index template before creating it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Simulate Index Template API to preview how index templates will be applied to an index or simulate an index template before creating it.
```

> The Simulate Index Template API helps you preview how index templates will be applied to an index or simulate an index template definition before creating it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Simulate Index Template API helps you preview how index templates will be applied to an index or simulate an index template before creating it.
```

## Endpoints

```json
POST /_index_template/_simulate
POST /_index_template/_simulate/<template_name>
POST /_index_template/_simulate_index/<index_name>
```

## Path parameters

The following table lists the available path parameters.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `template_name` | String | Name of the index template to simulate. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template_name` | String | The name of the index template to simulate. |
```

> | `index_name` | String | Name of the index to simulate template resolution on. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `index_name` | String | The name of the index to user for simulating template resolution. |
```

> | `index_name` | String | The name of the index to user for simulating template resolution. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `index_name` | String | The name of the index to use for simulating template resolution. |
```

## Request body fields

The following table lists the available request body fields.

| Field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `index_patterns` | Array | Index patterns the template applies to. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `index_patterns` | Array | The index patterns the template applies to. |
```

> | `index_patterns` | Array | The index patterns the template applies to. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `index_patterns` | Array | The index patterns to which the template applies. |
```

| `template` | Object | The template definition. |

> | `template.settings` | Object | Index settings to apply. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template.settings` | Object | The index settings to apply. |
```

> | `template.mappings` | Object | Field mappings to apply. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template.mappings` | Object | The field mappings to apply. |
```

> | `template.aliases` | Object | Aliases to apply. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template.aliases` | Object | The aliases to apply. |
```

> | `priority` | Integer | Priority of the template. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `priority` | Integer | The template priority. |
```

Reviewer 2: Should we explain what priority means for the template?

> | `version` | Integer | Template version. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `version` | Integer | The template version. |
```

| `_meta` | Object | Metadata for the template. |

### Example request: Simulate a template

> You can use the following command to simulate a template without creating it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following request to simulate a template without creating it:
```

```json
POST /_index_template/_simulate
{
  "index_patterns": ["log-*"],
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "number_of_shards": 1
    },
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "message": {
          "type": "text"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "priority": 5
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example request: Simulate a named template

> You can simulate specific template by specifying the name of the template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can simulate a specific template by specifying the name of the template.
```

> The first step is to create a template named `template_for_simulation` using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step is to create a template named `template_for_simulation` using the following request:
```

> The first step is to create a template named `template_for_simulation` using the following request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a template named `template_for_simulation` using the following request:
```

```json
PUT /_index_template/template_for_simulation
{
  "index_patterns": ["logs-sim-*"],
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "number_of_shards": 1,
      "number_of_replicas": 1
    },
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "timestamp": {
          "type": "date"
        },
        "message": {
          "type": "text"
        },
        "level": {
          "type": "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "priority": 10,
  "version": 1,
  "_meta": {
    "description": "Template used for simulation example",
    "owner": "Docs Team"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> You can now use the following command to simulate template named `template_for_simulation`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now simulate the template named `template_for_simulation`:
```

```json
POST /_index_template/_simulate/template_for_simulation
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Example request: Simulate template on a specific index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example request: Simulate a template on a specific index
```

> Simulating template on a specific index name is particularly useful for resolving conflicts or debugging priority issues among templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Simulating a template on a specific index name is particularly useful for resolving conflicts or debugging priority issues among templates.
```

> The following command demonstrates how all applicable templates, with overlapping index patterns, would apply to an index named `"logs-sim-1"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following request demonstrates how all applicable templates, with overlapping index patterns, will be applied to an index named `logs-sim-1`:
```

```json
POST /_index_template/_simulate_index/logs-sim-1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

```json
{
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "index": {
        "number_of_shards": "1",
        "number_of_replicas": "1"
      }
    },
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "level": {
          "type": "keyword"
        },
        "message": {
          "type": "text"
        },
        "timestamp": {
          "type": "date"
        }
      }
    },
    "aliases": {}
  },
  "overlapping": []
}
```

## Response body fields

| Field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `template` | Object | The effective template applied. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `template` | Object | The template applied. |
```

| `template.settings` | Object | The resolved index settings. |
| `template.mappings` | Object | The resolved field mappings. |
| `template.aliases` | Object | The resolved aliases. |

> | `overlapping` | Array | A list of overlapping templates. |

Reviewer 2: Could you explain more what overlapping templates mean?

## Required permissions

> If you use the Security plugin, make sure you have the appropriate permissions: `indices:admin/index_template/simulate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the Security plugin, make sure you have the appropriate permissions: `indices:admin/index_template/simulate`.
```

The following command demonstrates how all applicable templates, with overlapping index patterns, would apply to an index named `"logs-sim-1"`.

```json
POST /_index_template/_simulate_index/logs-sim-1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

```json
{
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "index": {
        "number_of_shards": "1",
        "number_of_replicas": "1"
      }
    },
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "level": {
          "type": "keyword"
        },
        "message": {
          "type": "text"
        },
        "timestamp": {
          "type": "date"
        }
      }
    },
    "aliases": {}
  },
  "overlapping": []
}
```

## Response body fields

| Field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `template` | Object | The effective template applied. |
| `template.settings` | Object | The resolved index settings. |
| `template.mappings` | Object | The resolved field mappings. |
| `template.aliases` | Object | The resolved aliases. |
| `overlapping` | Array | A list of overlapping templates. |

## Required permissions

> If you use the Security plugin, make sure you have the appropriate permissions: `indices:admin/index_template/simulate]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use the Security plugin, make sure you have the appropriate permissions: `indices:admin/index_template/simulate`.
```
